#summary A brief guide for RotU Translators
#labels Featured,Phase-Support

= Introduction =

This document provides guidance for those working to translate project resources into languages other than English.

== Credentials ==
To update or create translations for the project, you will need credentials.  If you want to help us translate, please email me.

==Subversion==
To begin translating, you must checkout a read-write version of head, as described in [DevelopmentEnvironment Setting Up a Development Environment].  You do not need to set up a full development environment.

== Translating Wiki Pages==
For an overview, see: [http://code.google.com/p/support/wiki/WikiSyntax#Localizing_Wiki_Content Localizing Wiki Content]

Once your translated content is committed to the repository, the wiki will automatically serve the translated page to those users whose default language is set to the translation language, falling back to English if there is no translated wiki page.

==Translating Configuration Files==
The `*`.cfg files contain documentation that should be translated.
Translated files should have the same name as the original, but they should be put in the proper language folder within i18n.  For example, for Spanish, the English server_default.cfg file will be translated then saved as i18n/es/config/server_default.cfg.

N.B. i18n is an abbreviation for 'internationalization'.  The names of the language folders follow the 2-character ISO-639 language codes as noted in the above link on localizing wiki content.

In the config files, do *not* translate the names of the dvars--only translate the comments, documentation, and the default strings, such as the 'Did You Know' messages.

