#summary How to Write a Useful Bug Report
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy
= Introduction =

Please follow these guidelines when submitting a bug report.  They will help you create the most useful bug report possible, and greatly facilitate our quest to fix the bug you are reporting.

Bug reports are *only* for problems with the source code, build system, wiki errors, or feature requests.  They are not for discussion about RotU, nor for support in setting up or modding a RotU server.  Use the Heavy Gunz forum for those issues.

= Bug Report Guidelines =

  # Tell us what version of RotU you are running.  For example, are you running a binary release (which one)?  Did you compile from source code (which revision)?  Have you made any changes to the source code, or are you running the stock version?
  # If you built the mod, were there any errors during the build process?  If so, what were the errors?
  # What version of MS Windows are you running?
  # What version of CoD4 are you running? 1.6.x or 1.7.x?
  # Is the issue reproducible, i.e. can you make the bug appear on demand?  If so, what steps are required to reproduce the bug?
  # Avoid useless statements such as "it doesn't work".  Instead, be as specific as possible.  Describe what you think the behavior should have been, and describe what the actual behavior is.  Describe what you see or don't see.  Describe any error messages.
  # Attach the portion of console_mp.log that covers the game in question--do not just attach the entire console_mp.log file.  Likewise for the server_mp.log file.
  # What map were you running when the bug appeared? Are you using the most recent version of the map?  Does the bug also appear if you use other maps?
  # Include only one issue per bug report.
  # Don't file a bug report if someone else has already filed one.  Instead, review their bug report, then add any additional information that may be helpful to the already submitted bug report.
  # Can you read/write English?  Can you speak/understand spoken English?  Do you have skype (do not put your username in the bug report, we will contact you via e-mail if we think talking to you would be helpful)
  # If the issue appears on a public server, what is the server's socket, i.e. ip address + port?  What name do you play under on this server?
  # Does the bug happen in the official development server at 	109.70.148.178:28937 as well?

=Patches=
If you have fixed a bug in your copy of the mod, you are welcome to submit a proposed fix.  Simply attach a unified diff to the bug report, and we will review your proposed fix.